README.md, before:

# Data-analysis-dashboard
Real Mart Sales — A data-driven sales analytics and management system for retail stores built with modern tools. Tracks sales, generates reports, and visualizes key business metrics.
##Project Overview
 Real Mart Sales is a full-stack application designed to help retail businesses track, analyze, and visualize their sales performance in real time. It provides tools for recording transactions, exploring trends, and making data-backed decisions to improve revenue and operations.
🚀 Features
📊 Sales Dashboard — Visualize daily, weekly, monthly, and yearly sales.
🧾 Transaction Logging — Store inventory and record each sale with item details.
📈 Performance Charts — Graphs for best-selling products, peak hours, and revenue trends.
🧠 Insights & Reports — Automated summaries and exportable CSV/PDF reports.
🔐 User Authentication — Secure login for managers and staff.
⚙️ API-Ready — REST APIs for integrating with other services or mobile apps.

Commit message:

Enhance README with project details and dataset info
Updated project overview and added dataset and process sections.

README.md, after:

# Data-analysis-dashboard
Real Mart Sales — A data-driven sales analytics and management system for retail stores built with modern tools. Tracks sales, generates reports, and visualizes key business metrics.
## Project Overview
 Real Mart Sales is a full-stack application designed to help retail businesses track, analyze, and visualize their sales performance in real time. It provides tools for recording transactions, exploring trends, and making data-backed decisions to improve revenue and operations.
🚀 Features
📊 Sales Dashboard — Visualize daily, weekly, monthly, and yearly sales.
🧾 Transaction Logging — Store inventory and record each sale with item details.
📈 Performance Charts — Graphs for best-selling products, peak hours, and revenue trends.
🧠 Insights & Reports — Automated summaries and exportable CSV/PDF reports.
🔐 User Authentication — Secure login for managers and staff.
⚙️ API-Ready — REST APIs for integrating with other services or mobile apps.

#dataset used
<a href="https://github.com/balasubramani29/Data-analysis-dashboard/blob/main/real_mart_dataset.xlsx">Dataset</a>
# process
1. We collect the real mart sales data from files or a database.
2. We clean and prepare the data for correct analysis.
3. We analyze the data to find sales trends and best-selling products.
4. We create charts and reports to show the results clearly.

<a href ="https://github.com/balasubramani29/Data-analysis-dashboard/blob/main/dashboard%20screenshot.png">Dashboard Screenshot </a>

## dashboard

<img width="821" height="466" alt="dashboard screenshot" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1cdc1f54-f9e1-4225-b832-09e24427a9c0" />
